Acting Like a Child Soundscape

Creating Soundscape
As I started this project, I knew that I wanted to use a poem that I wrote, called “Acting Like a Child”, and set my soundscape at a playground, to remind listeners of the days of blissful recess times of playing tag in mulch and  jump-roping, and to contrast this childhood scene with the way that we view children as we ourselves mature. 
To highlight the contrast of the dignity of children with the way we may view them, I first asked some friends and classmates what came to mind they heard the phrases “acting like a child”, or “acting childish”. The first few sounds that I recorded and put in Audacity, then, were background playground noises, my poem, and a response from my housemate as shown below:
(insert pic here)
 
The background playground asset was obtained from a YouTube channel, specifically from the video “Ambience Background Noise – Kinder Spielplatz Geräusche SOUND, references in my assets and sources page. Thank you to this channel for this sound! It created a beautiful culmination of running, playing, screaming, and laughing that I think helped set my soundscape in a distinct place. For each response from a friend or classmate, I tried to fit it primarily into the background noise first before layering more sounds on top – for example, I put the response “a toddler screaming” right after a child in the background screams, and I put the response “playing” and “spongebob” right before a child sings/hums a lovely and silly song to himself while walking on the playground. I wanted the reiteration of these responses with the background noise to help the listeners truly latch on to these responses, considering what they would answer to the question as well. 

To incorporate a personal recorded sound that was not voice and to layer the playground setting/youth narrative, I put in a jump-rope sound. Unfortunately, there were some changes to how I imagined this would’ve sounded – instead of recording it in my gym class, perhaps with chatter, and a beaded rope for a better/more distinct sound, I ended up having to record it with a plastic rope in a racquetball court, so I know that the sound has an undesirable echo and isn’t as clear as I’d like. With time constraints, I wasn’t able to record sounds in my gym class as I’d hoped, but I still wanted this sound and so I tried to incorporate it into my soundscape.

To continue the story of the playground, and match the shift in tone of my poem with a shift in tone in the surrounding sound of my narrative, I wanted to give the listeners a cue that this time of ‘recess’ was over, just as the line of the poem says “So, we learn, we’re not enough until we are an adult on our own”. I created this transition in two ways: first, with a door slam and the shade (‘mystery’) sound, and then with a whistle. I wanted to use a door slam sound (from Door Slam sound effects, Big Horns Intro performs Audionautix with a Creative Commons Attribution license, https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GRHw8nkLhSs&t=22s) and shade (‘mystery’) sound to depict the period of a teen/young adult’s life where they create clear separation between them and their parents, as they go through high school and eventually college, ultimately resulting in a dorm room that is completely separated from home life. I then implemented a whistle noise, because any child would recognize that as letting them know recess (which in my soundscape can more broadly mean childhood) is indeed over. 

As I continued to listen to my poem, I realized that just spoken word without the background of the children playing was a bit flat, and so I included a rain sound. As I listened and modulated the rain sound to fit the poem, I began to realize that rain is a great reason for the recess to end, or at least pause – but perhaps resume later. I ran with this idea.

When my poem lightens in tone, remarking on how regal and loving children are, I brought the playground sounds back, but since it had just rained, I wanted to signify this with another layer of sound. What better way to do this then sounds of jumping in puddles! Both the rain and the puddles were not my own recordings; they are from the YouTube audio library (walking in mud puddle sound effect https://www.youtube.com/audiolibrary/soundeffects), and the YouTube channel "Free Sound Library" channel (https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCTdyXszrxhMP-pbhy85Pa-g), respectively. A screenshot of a more updated version of my soundscape is below, with the puddles and more responses are included.
(insert pic here)
 
After editing and arranging these sounds, I thought about a recommendation from Ben that I got about perhaps using a music clip for background, to again help guide listeners about the tone and shifts within the narrative. I really enjoy the song Rivers and Roads, and after recording and implementing the introductory portion of this song with my poem, I realized that I quite liked the contrast between the beat of the song, and the ‘beat’ of the poem. They are not in sync, and I realized this after implementing the sound. But, instead of changing the speed or rhythm of the recording, I left it, because I think the rhythmic ‘dissonance’ of the song vs. poem serves my soundscape well by pointing to the dissonance between our thoughts about children and their actual dignity, integrity, intelligence, and importance.

Additionally, implementing the Rivers and Roads clip allowed me to create a bit of depth, and have more than three overlapping sounds within my soundscape: 
(insert pic here)
 
Feedback

I appreciated giving and receiving feedback on the soundscape, and it was helpful to read what others noticed within my narrative. 
One piece of feedback said that there was a lot of background noise/unpleasant feedback sounds during some of the responses. I definitely agreed with this, and had tried initially to modulate the sounds, through noise reduction and amplify tools, so they (all of the responses) were all the same volume but sacrificed the natural sound of the person’s voice in the process. Therefore, after reading this feedback, I imported these assets again, re-edited the sound to make it more natural even if one response remained a bit quieter than the others. 
 
Another piece of feedback suggesting to have more of the background playground asset play near the end of my soundscape. I decided not to implement this feedback for a few reasons: first, the end of the poem focuses on us, the listeners, and our thoughts, whereas the parts where it talks about how children love, and when I say “wild and free”, I decided to include the noises of children playing, because it’s more suited here. I wanted to draw attention to these last words of the poem near the end of the soundscape, so had reduced the number of sound layers here intentionally.
 
Things I learned about Git, GitHub and audacity

This is the first time I have used Git, GitHub, and Audacity.

The main functions in Audacity that I utilized include amplify, noise reduction, labeling, clipping boundaries, and change tempo. I tried to use fade in/fade out or even the adjustable fade, but I couldn’t quite make those functions work with the assets and timing I was using. I wanted to be able to control the exact reduction in volume, so I implemented negative amplification until I got the layering that I wanted. This allowed me great flexibility, because then I could tailor the fade in/out to be suited for introducing or layering the next sound clip. 

At first, I was pretty overwhelmed by Git because it was fairly new to me. Also, it brought back some scary (and yet helpful) memories of my days using Unix in freshman engineering. I was able to draw a bit on these thought processes to understand Git and tried to ask a lot of questions to make sure I understood what was going on conceptually. My friend, a Computer Engineering major, pointed me to some helpful websites and these resources in combination with the one’s provided in class let me get a basic understanding to be push and pull my project to and from GitHub.

How I met the baseline/aspirational criteria:

Although I described many of the criteria above, I wanted to clarify the ways I achieved the baseline and some of the aspirational criteria. 

With my reading of the poem I wrote, and the responses from classmates and jump-rope asset, I have about 1.5 minutes or more of original recordings, recorded by me. Between the 1:45-2:00 minute mark, the playground background, poem reading, rivers and roads clip, and puddles over lap 2-3 times. My entire soundscape is just under 3 minutes in length. And, through the more detailed description above, there are several changes during my soundscape, but most distinctly the whistle blowing and door slamming indicated the ‘end of recess’ depicts a clear tone, narrative, and sonic change. Through careful arrangement and using the amplify tool, I tried to align the volume and meaning of the sounds appropriately. I included the mystery sound along with the door slam for a good layer and more drastic slam effect.

Lastly, I was able to use GitHub for commit/version history.
